- [Instructor] Let's walk through a few code examples
that create a collection.
Collections can be declared and instantiated
like any other object.
We specify the type of the collection,
provide its identifier,
and then instantiate a new collection implementation
that will be assigned to the variable.
I'm using the collection interface as the variable type.
However, if I wanted to be more specific about the type,
I could've switched over to use the set interface.
So let's make the change and import the set
from java.util.set.
Now, the reason this works is because
the hash set implements the set interface.
We couldn't do something like using a list
as our variable type
because it's not compatible with hash set.
But let's go ahead, we'll import the list
from java.util.list,
and then we'll change the implementation over
to use the array list.
So we'll add the array list constructor,
and now we have a list.
Now, let's talk about one more thing that you shouldn't do.
Sometimes, you'll see people try to
instantiate the collection type.
The collection type doesn't have any direct implementation,
so you can't do something like this.
Let's just go ahead and we'll get rid of that code.
Now I'm going to switch back over to using a collection
as the variable type for our object.
Okay so, now we have a collection,
and in that collection, I'd like to store strings.
So I'm going to specify the generic type argument
on the variable type.
And then over here on the constructor,
all use the diamond operator
to infer the generic type from our variable types Generic.
Okay.
Now that that's in place, we have our new collection,
but it's kind of empty.
Let's go ahead and add some elements into this collection.
I'm going to add a few of my favorite things.
So I love to snowboard, I love Linux,
I also love to read, and I'm so excited about snowboarding,
I'm going to add that twice.
All right, now our collection isn't so empty.
Let's go ahead and print this out to the console.
Now, I can just pass in the collection
to the print LN method, and that's because
collections provide their own two-string implementation.
So with that code in place,
we can go ahead and look at the elements
that are found in our collection.
So we see the snowboard, Linux books,
and the snowboard again.
All right, now we're going to take a look at
another way that we can create a collection.
Each collection implementation has a conversion constructor
that accepts another collection as an argument.
So we're going to take our collection C
and convert it to a set using the conversion constructor.
To do this, we're first going to declare
a new variable of type collection
with a generic type of string.
I'm going to call it favorite things.
And then, I'm going to use the hash set constructor
and pass into that constructor our original collection.
Okay, so let's do this.
Instead of printing out the original collection,
let's go ahead and print out the favorite things collection.
I'm going to save it, and then watch what happens.
Now that we've switched over to a hash set,
we've lost one of the snowboard elements,
and that's because a set doesn't contain duplicate elements.
Now let's talk about one more best practice.
When you're working with a collection,
you want to avoid as much as possible
doing something like this.
So here, you'll notice that I'm using the array list,
which is the concrete implementation, as the variable type.
In general, you want to use the most abstract type possible.
So that's going to be something like the list interface,
or you would use the collection interface in this situation.
By using the most abstract type possible
for the variable type of your object,
it allows you to switch the implementation
without any consequences.
So you'll notice, I just switched over to an array deck
and I didn't need to change any of the code
that relied on the collection interface.
So this is going to make your code a lot higher quality
if you keep this point in mind.
I'm always on the lookout for it in a code review.
All right, and just to prove it works,
we'll go ahead and execute our code again.
And there, you can see our output.
So, just by a few examples of collections,
you can start to see the flexibility
that gets provided by the Java collections framework.
It's going to be even more apparent
when we take a deeper look at generics in our next lesson.